Introcz'nction. ix

 

inscribed on gifts sent at the Saturnalia. The other
books, numbered consecutively Ι. to XII„ are the
Libra· Engrrammaton proper, containing 1172 epigrams,
from which those in this volume have been selected.
They were published at intervals from 86 to 102 A.D.
The first four books, after appearing separately, were
published together, but there was no complete edition
of the twelve books till after the poet's death.

The subjects of these poems are mostly taken from
real life in its brilliant many-sided aspects at the capi-
tal of the world. Though there is a preponderance of
the follies and vices of society among these themes‚
though the parasite, the debauchee‚ and the fortune-
hunter appear unpleasantly often, yet the variety of
subjects is so great that no other writer gives us as
complete a picture of the social manners and the daily
life of the Romans. And it is because he brings us
into contact with ordinary human beings on the plane
of every-day existence, that Martial has been from his
day to ours one of the most popular of poets.

The epigrams being personal in form, it is necessary
to observe that living persons were not mentioned by
their real names except when spoken of with praise‚
or, at worst, with indifference. Otherwise names are
used which suit the metres; sometimes repeatedly as
types of certain characters, but usually quite without
significance.

The chief characteristic of these poems is their wit,
yet from reading all of them we get the impression

that the author was a man of kindly disposition, and
if without depth of nature, also without bitterness of

